# SimilarityBiasedLearning
Code supplement for the "The Evolution of Similarity-Biased Social Learning" by Paul E. Smaldino &amp; Alejandro Pérez Velilla.

## Repository details

The repository contains a Julia project that must be [activated and instantiated](https://pkgdocs.julialang.org/v1/environments/) before use.

The ``notebooks`` repository contains a [Pluto](https://plutojl.org/) notebook that can be used to perform and plot individual model runs for exploratory purposes. The function ``plot_stats()`` is defined within the notebook and is a quick way to visualize model runs. The current parameter configuration replicates Supplemental Figure 3 in the Appendix.

The ``paramscan`` directory contains the scripts used to run the parameter sweeps analyzed for the paper (see below), while the ``src`` directory contains the script ``similarity_bias_ABM.jl`` which contains the model code and that is called by the aforementioned parameter-scanning scripts.

The ``data`` directory is the designated output location for parameter sweeps. It is empty due to the size of the resulting files, which are hosted at OSF (see below). This directory will hold the output of any replications and alternative parameter sweeps performed using i.e. the scripts in ``paramscan``.

## Description of the data and file structure

Data can be found at https://osf.io/rwbev/

The data is organized in four different files, each generated by a corresponding parameter scanning script in the "paramscan" directory that can be found in the code repository. The scripts contain all information on how parameters were varied. The resulting CSV files are organized such that columns are parameters/outcome measures, and rows are individual runs of the agent-based model. Therefore, every row contains the parameters used and the outcomes obtained from a particular model run.

Parameter list:

N : Total number of agents in the run.

mu_r : Mutation rate for reliance on social learning.

sigma_r : Standard deviation of reliance on social learning.

mu_p : Mutation rate for parochialism.

sigma_p : Standard deviation of parochialism.

S : Strength of selection.

strategies : Social learning strategies allowed in the run, can be any of ["UL", "UL&CB", "UL&PB", "ALLTHREE"],

n : Number of potential targets for learning used by social learners.

theta : Distance between group-associated optimal trait values.

f : Relative frequency of Group 0.

sigma_l : Error rate of individual learning.

ID_corr : Correlation between group tag and actual group membership.

rep : Replicate number of the run, for a particular parameter combination.

true_random : Boolean indicating whether true randomness was used for a run. For all runs across all datasets, this was set to "true".

total_ticks : Total ticks in the run.

Outcome list:

mean_payoff_final : Mean population-wide payoff.

mean_payoff_g0_final : Mean payoff of Group 0.

mean_payoff_g1_final : Mean payoff of Group 1.

mean_social_final : Mean population-wide social learning reliance.

mean_social_g0_final : Mean social learning reliance in Group 0.

mean_social_g1_final : Mean social learning reliance in Group 1.

mean_parochial_final: Mean population-wide similarity bias.

mean_parochial_g0_final : Mean similarity bias in Group 0.

mean_parochial_g1_final : Mean similarity bias in Group 1.

prop_unbiased_final : Population-wide proportion of unbiased social learners.

prop_unbiased_g0_final : Group 0 proportion of unbiased social learners.

prop_unbiased_g1_final : Group 1 proportion of unbiased social learners.

prop_conformist_final : Population-wide proportion of conformist learners.

prop_conformist_g0_final : Group 0 proportion of conformist learners.

prop_conformist_g1_final : Group 1 proportion of conformist learners.

prop_payoff_final : Population-wide proportion of payoff-biased learners.

prop_payoff_g0_final : Group 0 proportion of payoff-biased learners.

prop_payoff_g1_final : Group 1 proportion of payoff-biased learners.
